# February 2024

## Mar 10, 2024 - Linear Regression

- Khang realized it is important for him to start with the basics first: Linear Regression
- Multivariate Linear Regression: $$y = a_1(x_1) + a_2(x_2) + ... + a_n(x_n) + b + (error)$$
- Linear Regression algorithm: a repeating step in which we move a line closer to a data point until the regression line is closer to all the data points
- LaTeX can be embedded in Markdown

## Mar 09, 2024 - Willpower

- Today Khang learned that lying on his bed totally kills his willpower. The reason being willpower is managed by his frontal lobe region which is weakened when his body is fatigue (which is triggered simply lying on his bed in a sleep position)
- Also his screen time needs to be managed as well.

## Mar 08, 2024 - Linear Equation

- Feels like Khang is back to University learning Linear Algebra again...
- Linear Equation: $$y = m(x) + b$$
b: bias, m: weight

## Mar 07, 2024 - Foundation of Machine Learning

- Machine Learning, like Human Learning, begins with Remember (Data), Formulate (Model), Predict
- Khang thinks he should get started with supervised learning

## Mar 06, 2024 - Vacation

- Vacation

## Mar 05, 2024 - Rejections

- Last day before Vacation
- All of his interview results have been rejected

## Mar 04, 2024

- Job Search continues

## Mar 03, 2024 - Kingsmith Walking Pad

- Khang placed an order for Kingsmith Walking Pad so he can walk while working from home.
- He intended to use it to practice his kickboxing skills as well.

## Mar 02, 2024 - Machine Learning Interviews

- Started reading 'Machine Learning Interviews' by Susan Shu Chang
- Susan is an entrepreneur, game developer and a principal data scientist, starting her career with a degree in Economics.

## Mar 01, 2024 - Kickboxing movement

- Just another day to practice movement and punching, in mixing order.
- His posture got better, it is important to curl his body and keept his chin tucked in.

## Feb 29, 2024 - A QE sharing session for Starcamp

- Khang had another interview at a very big Startup Company whose products focus on AI and Big Data in Fintech
- The interview went longer than expected but he really enjoyed every minute of it. A lot of questions are out of ordinary and very thought-provoking.
- In the afternoon, Khang had one of his last sharing sessions as a Quality Engineer at NAB

## Feb 28, 2024 - Don't Underestimate the Warm-up & Stretch

- Khang pushed a little too hard the other day while doing Squat and Deadlift. Muscle soreness and aching kept him up all night.
- Broke his wrist not too long ago from punching and he didn't learn at all, did he?
- Leg days are terrible, he should do it more.

## Feb 27, 2024 - Knowledge Transfer

- First day Khang transferred all the work in the last 3 months to a new colleague.

## Feb 26, 2024 - Hand Wrap

- Khang has rejected the request for him to join NAB's Productivity team. This was hard to decide.
- Khang bought his first pair of hand wrap today. Took a bit of getting used to, though.

## Feb 25, 2024 - Kaggle Machine Learning Intermediate

- Khang completed his Machine Learning Intermediate level on Kaggle.

## Feb 24, 2024 - Error & Leakage

- MAE = X meaning "On average, our predictions are off by about X."
- "In-Sample" Scores: a single "sample" of data is used for both building the model and evaluating it. --> The model will appear accurate in the training data.
- Data leakage (or leakage) happens when thte training data contains information about the target, but similar data will not be available when the model is used for prediction.
- Two types of leakage:
  - Target leakage:  the timing or chronological order that data becomes available. Some data will not be available at the time predictions are made. E.g. patients may not receive medications after getting pneumonia
  - Train-Test Contamination: For example, fitting an imputer for missing values before calling train_test_split(). The end result: The model may get good validation scores, giving us great confidence in it, but perform poorly when we deploy it to make decisions.
- When using cross-validation, it's even more critical that we do preprocessing inside the pipeline! (scikit-learn)

## Feb 23, 2024 - High Impact Score

- Khang met NAB's HeadOfs of his 'current' team for the first time.
- He told Khang that the data he collected, cleaned, processed and provided were shared all across NAB and his work was highly appreciated and very impactful.
- Upon hearing that, it was all it took to make his day fulfilled.

## Feb 22, 2024 - Kickboxing Basics

- Turns out Khang did it all wrong!
- Spent a whole sessions fixing his basic punches and stance
- Punching has a lot of pivoting to do

## Feb 21, 2024 - Polars

- Refactoring codes, preparing to transfer Polars code to his colleagues.
- Khang can't wait for Polars 1.0.0 release!

## Feb 20, 2024 - Kickboxing Punch

- Found the defect in the code:
  - The mismatch dtype between id columns when merged (in pandas): one being int32, the other being float32
  - The compiler didn't give any alerts or warnings.
- Kickboxing Punch:
  - Turns out Khang did it all wrong. The power of the punch doen't come from his arms! He should have tried to use his core as well as hip, legs and pivot his foot!
  - With that said, Khang realized his legs are really weak.

## Feb 19, 2024 - Guest Day

- Too many guests today: interns (Starcamp & Wecamp), new recruits, lots of special guests visiting from Australia. Some familiar, some aren't.
- Found some errors in the code, again.

## Feb 18, 2024 - Preparing for NAB's executive visit

- Tomorrow is a big day. Khang is very excited. He is excited about all that is coming for (at) him. People are back at work.
- Possibly a new opportunity? A new position? A new event?
- Khang shouldn't have his hopes up, though. Should just be patient.
- Kickboxing basic: Core
  - Core is where most of the power is coming from
  - Brace yourself!

## Feb 17, 2024 - Weekend Work

- The Python code was getting out of hand.
- Too much code in too little time.
- Everytime a change is made, a new layer of complexity is added but there was no time to refactor
- Filter should be done last in the code to prevent missing data if it is used elsewhere. Take advantage of scan_parquet()!

## Feb 16, 2024 - Kickboxing Stance

- Ackoff's Law: It is better to do the right things wrong than the wrong things right.
- Khang just started learning kickboxing during Tet. All the gyms and pools are closed so he needed to find a way to exercise
- Kickboxing Basic: Stance
  - Curl your body, shoulders and brace yourself
  - Keep your elbows perpendicular to the ground!

## Feb 15, 2024 - Back to work

- First working day after the break

## Feb 14, 2024 - Tech Debt

- Dealt with some tech debts leftover
- Kickboxing combo 1:
  - left punch (x2)
  - right punch
  - change stance
  - knee strike

## Feb 13, 2024 - Streamlit

- Streamlit for Data Science (Book)
  - Highly recommended. Simple and concise.
  - Streamlit is a very powerful low-code tool to quickly create a prototype for a Data project
  - Streamlit integrates seamlessly to other python libs
  - My new go-to deployment platform

## Feb 12, 2024 - Data Science

- Took another Data Analysis Test. Same old format:
  - Python
  - CI/CD
  - Data Analysis
  - Machine Learning
  - Streamlit
- TIL:
  - XGBoost - Very powerful ensemble Gradient Descent library
  - Tinkering with XGBRegressor() parameters like n_estimators (1-1000) and learning_rate

## Feb 11, 2024 - Book Hogging

- Finished "Principles of Design" Book
- Next: "Streamlit for Data Science"

## Feb 10, 2024 - Tet is Over

- Shortest Tet Holiday ever. One house visit only.

## Feb 9, 2024 - Machine Learning

### Encoding Categorical Values

- Strategies when dealing with Categorical values
  - Drop Categorical Variables
  - OrdinalEncoder
  - OneHotEncoder (pivot with 0s and 1s)
- Get number of unique entries in each column with categorical data
  - object_nunique = list(map(lambda col: X_train[col].nunique(), object_cols))
  - d = dict(zip(object_cols, object_nunique))
  - sorted(d.items(), key=lambda x: x[1])
  
## Feb 8, 2024 - Venturing Out

- AEON Mall was still crowded today. It will be open during Tet Holidays. - Machine Learning - Missing Values

- Created a Databricks account and wrote my first notebook. (Community Version)
- Kaggle: filling missing values by using techniques:
  - drop null columns
  - impute null values with SimpleImputer()
  - impute null values with column extension (col_name_was_missing)
  - impute null values with different strategies: mean, median, etc.

## Feb 7, 2024 - Untypical before Tet

- Submitted Trusting Social's Screening Test. Pretty generic. Khang is not allowed to give you details of the test, though. He did use Polars to write all the dataframe manipulation for a lot of his work.
  - One series of questions about SQL
    - The CTE was fairly complex and took a large chunk of his time
  - One series of questions about Python Data cleaning
    - Fairly straightforward, mostly renaming, manipulating strings, dtype, replacing with regex, etc.
  - One series of questions about Data Analysis.
    - This question requires a bit of thinking and tinkering.
    - You need to play around with the data a bit before choosing which variables are significant and create statistics out of them.
- Last day of gym before Tet holidays
- Today Khang learned:
  - Data: some Software Engineering skills are really needed to become a good Data Analyst/Engineer
  - Gym: Need to focus on Leg days. Planning to do 2 leg days / week from now
  - Exercise: Need to breathe in between reps: rep - breath - brace - rep - breath - brace - etc. This will create a consistent rhythem and help you focus all your strength in the rep while holding that last bit of the rep by breathing out and in quickly.

## Feb 6, 2024 - Machine Learning

- Started Machine Learning Course on Kaggle
- Finished Decision Tree Regressor exercises
  - Actually not that hard.
  - Split train test was very intuitive to validate predictions.

## Feb 5, 2024 - Khang's First Blog

- First commit to GitHub Pages.
  - However, Khang only committed the HTML so his code won't be public.
  - You can still ask him personally if you want to learn about his code.
- khangnghiem.github.io published

## Feb 4, 2024 - Retro x2

- Khang wrote another email expressing his apology to his managers because apparently he still didn't know what he was doing.

## Feb 3, 2024 - Retro

- Khang wrote an email expressing his concern to his managers because apparently he didn't know what he was doing.

## Feb 2, 2024 - A Start of Something New

- Today Khang learned that there is a good chance he won't be joining a new team at NAB as a Data Analyst.
- But it's OK. Khang believes that if he gave it all 100% effort, he will be well rewarded, in one way or another.
- Quality Engineering wasn't a bad experience. Not at all.
  - He did learn a lot of philosophy about Quality Engineering that could be applied all across multiple industries.
  - QE mindset is much needed to develop high quality products
  - Workflow Automation mindset is really beneficial for long-term or repetitive projects
